[music]
Hello you lovely club fish members and welcome to this week's bit of bonus material.
What do we have for you this week? We have an episode of Meet the Elves.
So I am joined in Holborn today by Dan Schreiber who's just come off a train ride from hell
which you might have heard about on the podcast this week I'm not sure.
Anna Tyshinski for whom I have no anecdote and a very special guest Molly Windust.
Hello. Hello Molly. Hiya. How are you doing?
Better than Dan I think. Yeah. And me. My epitaph is Anna Tyshinski for whom there is no anecdote.
The most boring woman alive. Wow. I'm sorry about that.
I think it's funny that Anna doesn't wear shoes in the office. Am I allowed to say that?
People are allowed to know that. People must not know that I have feet.
Oh my god. The wiki feet community will be on to us. She does have socks on though.
Oh yeah that's quite an important distinction. I do. Although we did a photo shoot recently
for our tour by the way it was on sale and I just couldn't be able to put shoes on so we
did it without shoes and then our colleague was like was that on purpose and isn't the
I just realized that in Abbey Road Paul McCartney doesn't wear shoes and that meant he was dead.
Oh so we're going to have conspiracy theories that's quite exciting. That's interesting.
That's very funny. No wonder there's nothing to say about you. You're dead.
Yeah exactly. And Anna Tyshinski who is an AI.
But also without you giving permission the first draft we saw of the poster they added shoes on
to you because they were worried about the wiki feet. I did not see that.
What type of shoes? One was a clown shoe and the other one was an orthopedic shoe.
I thought it was a bit harsh actually. I do remember Alex saying that sorry it was Alex
who did it wasn't it. Sorry as Anna was talking just then you literally ripped your socks off
and threw them aside. What happened? I think this might come down to that I'm always very hot.
Anyway this isn't me the wiki feet community and Anna. This is me Molly who has shoes on.
Yes she does. And Molly you work in the production arm would you say?
Production leg. Okay production foot. Production toe. Yes I do.
Yes so you work in the production big toe of QI but for the moment you have a question for us.
I do. That you're going to ask and we're going to flail all around and try and answer in the next
20 minutes and then you'll give us the answer that we failed to get. So what is your question?
Okay my question this week is why did a seventh floor London council flat travel one thousand
miles? A seventh floor. Wow. Well the world is always rotating on its axis isn't it Molly and
going around the sun so it travels much more than one thousand miles. Yes and the sun is going around
Sagittarius A which is the black hole at the centre of our galaxy. Sure. So is that the answer?
Yeah I can clock off now. Close dismissed. No that's not the answer. Okay so it's a seventh
floor London council flat apartment travel the thousand miles. Okay first of all why don't we
work out what's a thousand miles from London? Yeah. That's clever. I felt like my house today
given how long it took me to get in here. Am I right? I'm very bad at distances I can't judge
them so let's see you're looking a thousand miles that probably looks like California.
I think that's a bit further. Is that quite a lot further? I think that's way further yeah.
I think a thousand miles probably wouldn't get you to the east coast of America. Does it not get you
to the east coast? I don't think so. Distance is a funny old thing isn't it? I was in Margate recently
and Leven Skyra came down. Oh yeah. Leven was standing next to me and he said do you know what's
really weird? I'm closer to my home in Belgium right now than I am to London. Yeah okay. That's
amazing. Took out his Google Maps and he looked at it and he measured the distance of both places
and he said yeah. That's bizarre. We are really close to Europe. Well in some ways not politically.
There is a thing where if you draw a line from the center of America to the most
westerly part of the UK and you go to the middle of that line you're still in North America you're
in Canada. If you were to say in the center of North America did you say yeah? No center of the
United States of America which I think is the town cold center or something. Oh that's right yeah we
did that yeah. Anyway this is not really... I would say North Africa is about a thousand miles is that
right? Turkey? Yeah you're closer than California for sure. Is it a place that's a thousand miles
away? Did it move or did it like go round and round and round the same neighborhood for a thousand
miles and land in the same place? Or are we looking for a place that's a thousand miles away? You're
looking for a place. I thought you're onto it there. I thought Seventh Floor was like a revolving
restaurant so it was technically traveling. That's good. I'm not as elaborate as maybe some of the
other Elves. Okay so here's a question. The Simple Elf is what we taught you. Yeah I'm having a really
tough time with it. I think a practical elf because we've already established you're in the production
team and in the last series of QI you're kind of in charge of all the props right? Yeah I'm in
charge of props. You're in charge of props so if you watch the next season which goes out in the
winter and you see anything go wrong. That's me. That's all on Molly. Sandy would often ask for like
on the day she goes oh wouldn't it be great to demonstrate this with a tennis ball that's cut
in half and the show was in 15 minutes and I'm like I'll get you a tennis ball Sandy and I'll
saw that in half. How did you saw it in half because in Kill Bill they throw one at the
monk and he just does it with a sword. Yeah I didn't have a sword that's against health and
safety. I use my pen knife really slowly. Nice. Oh nice. Well I'm having a pen knife because
actually I read recently that the latest edition of the pen knife has been released without a knife
no way. So it's good that you didn't. That's a pen you bought. I've been deep. That's a two-thin. That's a two-thin.
That's a two-thin. Okay so here's a question. Yeah. Does the former or current inhabitant
of this flat give us some clue to the answer to the question? No. In fact it's important to think
about the fact that they had no choice in the matter. Okay because I was thinking like maybe
it was the flat that Engels lived in and you know the Soviets brought it over. Oh yeah because there
was also Rosa Parks's house which they knocked down or they wanted to knock down and then Germany
I think it was said no we'll have it and then they just relocated this entire house. Yeah and then
of course you got Dickens's flat pack with Chalet which is in Rochester. And someone tried
to buy Shakespeare's house. I think there's an American who came over and tried to buy Shakespeare's
house and there was a huge campaign against it in the 19th century. It got together and they bought
him out. So is it a historic council block? Oh yes it is. Okay the only famous council block I can
think of is the Barbican off the top of my head. But that's at the top of my head. Have you noticed
a seventh floor flat missing from the Barbican? Does it have seven floors of Barbican? It has
way more. Does it? Does it? The big towers have. Like Trelik Tower has more of course. Is it a whole
floor or just one flat did you say? It's the seventh floor but two whole masonette flats.
So interestingly he said did you notice have you noticed a missing flat in the Barbican? We said no.
So does that mean that if we looked at this building today in London there is a gap where
those flats used to be? In the specific time that it was taken there would have been two missing
flats but a clue is that the flats no longer exist. Oh the entire building. The entire block
no longer exist. Because I was suddenly thinking do you remember there's that I place I can't remember
if it's in Japan but where they had to put the train system through the building and so they had
to remove the flats. A flight route went through the building so they had to remove one floor.
Downs Margate train. No no this in this in this case the flats still exist but they just knocked
out the houses and the train literally goes through. Surely that's like in Mary Poppins like when you
would all your china would go as the train came through. I think I think you should focus on where
a thousand let's go back to the simple question of where a thousand miles. Okay that we've established
so that is not a simple question. So it was closer to Turkey than it was to North America.
Is it Eastern Europe? No. Is it the Middle East? No. Are we going North? No. Are we going South?
Yes keep going. Italy. Yes okay Italy okay we got that. Well done. And this was a long time ago
because it doesn't exist anymore or it was council flats so they didn't exist that long ago did
they? Well it's you know mid 20th century it could be. It wasn't a long time ago. Oh right it just
happens. I could have given you the date but I decided not to but I could. It's fine okay we can
work this out. We can work this out. Yeah we can work out the date we had a very fun episode with
Jack Chambers where we spent about four hours trying to work out the date. Exactly 1951 1952 1953.
It's of note because of architectural history in London and potentially political history around
the demolition as previously spoken upon. Have we heard of is this like a really recognizable
name the building name? Yes I could give you a clue to the name of the of the building. Yeah go on.
It's based on a mythical creature from the north of England. Oh Yeti towers. Sorry creatures quite
are not really the right word. Loch Ness monster. Peter K. Loch Ness monster is in the north of
England is it? Send your letters to the author. My version of history James. Creatures not the
right word but mythical person. Oh King Arthur. Robin Hood towers or something. Well done Robin Hood
gardens. Robin Hood gardens. Oh right. It's the name of the building. North of England. Sherwood
Forest. I said north England. Yeah I would say north England. Well you would. Both of you.
But I can tell you a lot of people in the Newcastle area. So true. From where I'm sat.
Yes. Should we discuss where the line for north of England is because I always think above Birmingham
which not he's not not again right. Well you see it on the road it says you're now entering the north.
Yeah. Yeah that's a big sign. That's a big wall isn't there. Yeah. And all those white walkers.
Okay. Shall I issue a formal apology. Are you intending to visit Newcastle in the next year
or so? Not now. Listen Jordies do you want to widen your sphere or narrow it because James is
implying that you just want to be part of your own tiny little enclave whereas I think surely you'd
want more and more of it. That's right. Take back control of the north. Okay come on class back to
the. Sorry. Robin Hood. Yes so. Okay well done. We've got the name of the. Robin Hood and it's in
East London. And did some couldn't we get a bit more about the history of why someone wanted it.
Was it some weird Italian eccentric who thought I love this building. I'd like to take the seventh
floor. I don't know if I can tell you that because that might give away. Oh I reckon I know what it
is. Think about why it might be going to Italy. They got a housing shortage. I'm giving them some
of our houses. It was one in a divorce. No. Because Paul Gasgrain moved from Spurs to Lazio
and he wanted a bit of London to go with. Imagine if it was that. Yes. The demolition
I think might help. Why might why might someone keep a part of a flat. Pair it back. It's slightly
more simple than. Okay. That. So it was just made by a famous person in the art. Was he
architect Italian and they wanted to move it. But you're on the right line. The interior decorator.
Why would you why would someone put something on display in Italy. It's the pope. The pope
lived in a council house in London 1950. Let's pause a sec and recalibrate because we're just
yelling stuff at this point. Hey Frankie Boyle lives in a council flat doesn't he in Glasgow.
He lives in the top. This is going to help us is it. Well no I'm just suddenly thinking that's
something that we've not not mentioned. Well you're a you're a comedian as well which is something
that probably no one knows on a Meet the Elf level. Yeah do you think Helen Frankie are probably BFS.
No I'm trying I'm trying to cool my brain. I like to do this and meet the Elf where I
take it away from the subject so in the background think of what's going on.
Are you doing Edinburgh this year. I'm going up for a week. I'm not I'm not I'm not doing a
show. I'm just going to do I'm doing the cheeky thing of I go up for a week and do a few variety
shows and tell everyone I'm exhausted and that it's a really challenging place to be to people
who are doing proper one month shows. Yeah didn't you do one show last year. Yeah last year I did
one night. Hannah what are we doing in Edinburgh this year. It's the perfect way to do it. That's
a good point yeah we're on to we're on to a winner here. You don't spend any money you go for one
night you tell everyone it's an exhausting place to be and you leave in the morning. Exactly what
I'm going to do. But you do London comedy shows right. I know that Alex went to what is like a
sketch night that you put on. Yeah it's sketch and short films and like alternative acts. I've
really got into clowning recently so I've been trying to find as many clowns as you can in
London. I just put on sort of really odd nights just in one car. Yeah all in one car all in one
big shoe. Do you want to give us you can give us clues as the festival name. Okay give us give us
make it cryptic. Okay fine oh yeah um okay um I just can't just feel people listening at home
screaming at us. The idiot that um it's not quite the first syllable but roughly the first syllable
is um a Spanish word. Is this the name of the festival? Yes it'd be good to know the name. Okay
C. Keep going. Cue going. No I'm saying give me a cerveza. Bambuleo. No Spanish word you're
going to give us more. Yeah Spanish word is the is the first sort of syllable of the name of the
festival. Diaz. Buenos. Buenos notches. Come on. What's um come on come on kids. Come on uh what
does a Spanish word mean? Um no that's cheating. We need to cheat. Don't we need to cheat. It means
good. Buenos. Buena vista. No. Buena. You say very good how do you say very good. Bellissimo. No that's
Italian. That's bad isn't it. Is this something like that? No we're going all Italian aren't we?
Spanish um. Buon. Buen. Yeah yeah yeah bueno no. Buon be. Okay when you say um very good it's muy bien.
The second half that is bien. Bien bien bien. Yes. Bien is Sumo. Okay I'm going to tell you. Yeah we
don't know. It's the biennale. The biennale. You were so close. Yeah. Seen it written down. I always
thought it was pronounced biennial. The biennial biennial. He was a different word. Biennial. Well
that's very good to know. We're uncultured swine so but there is another bit. Well there's something
special about the floor specifically. I'm never going to forget the bienness sumo. First of all
I would always call the biennial. Sure um well the question is why did a seventh floor London
council flat travel a thousand miles? To go to an architecture exhibition. And it was because
when it was demolished in 2018 these two slightly crazy artists bought via the VNA a seventh floor
flat and kept it and then shipped it to the biennale in order to demonstrate to Italians
how London people live. Oh wow. In 2018. Oh wow that's true. Which is quite random and it got a
huge amount of backlash because the Robin Hood Garden flats were demolished and their council
flats and in the demolition people were arguing that they should be listed and it failed to get
listed so they got demolished and obviously it was a big comment on how Bruce List architecture
doesn't quite work for housing. Well we just have such an oversupply of council flats in Britain
anyway so we've got to be getting rid of them. And the VNA thought which I do think is bizarre.
Why don't we buy it and show it off in Venice in 2018 and that's exactly what they did.
Molly can I ask do you know the name of that couple who built that? Yeah I do um
they're called the Smithsons Alison and Peter and they built um. It's just such normal. Alison
and Peter. And they built it in they built Robin Hood guns in 1974 and it was considered very
revolutionary because all the bedrooms and main living areas faced the gardens so you could
potentially have your kids playing in the gardens you wouldn't have to go down and be with them so
it was meant to be like a really communal thing that you just drop your kids off but it didn't
quite work. Drop your kids out the window. Yeah lob them out. The VNA now own them and the VNA is
opening a new building where the Olympic Park is in Stratford and they're going to display them there
which I think is even weirder to be like here's how London it's like I think we know. But yeah
that's opening next year and it's like it's a but yeah it is about the architecture and about
brutalism but I do I mean people who were like living there were like you don't need to show us
the way we lived you know it's like I think that's a really interesting artistic idea.
It is interesting. It's got value in some way. Because I kind of think those brutalist buildings
a lot of the importance of them is the fact that there's more than one flat. Actually there might
be dozens of flats on top of each other and just taking them out of the huge buildings. It's also
like I think it kind of it's a bit of a fetish I think people being obsessed with brutalism being
obsessed with concrete and like it's often quite highly up academics who are like obsessed with
who want these places like local busiers stuff to be kept and actually it doesn't work and the people
living in them are experiencing mold and like bad heating and all this and they're like no no no but
it's it's concrete and beautiful. It is interesting. If you want to if you want to hear the other
arguments about that then buy John Grindred's books. Well true. Oh yes. He's a friend of ours
and there's loads of books about brutalism. Yeah I studied it in my third year lots of stuff about
how yeah these flats are often kind of idealized and it's like this these high up architects
and in my first year I went to India because I got this lucky thing that I applied for this
research grant that I didn't think I'd get and then I got it. I got to go to Chandigarh which is a
city in India that Le Corbusier designed and in the north of India and it's a grid system and it's
all concrete and it is so poorly designed like to get from one side to the other you just can't
like you have to go around basically. The grid system just doesn't work and obviously in India
there's like you know market stalls and like bazaars and stuff and they you attempt to do
them in these gridded streets and it just doesn't work and no one can move and there's it's a really
weird. There you go. There's the anti Corbusier PR there. I love it. On the plus side for you Anna
because we learned today when we're talking about JBS Haldane if you go and live in India you don't
have to wear socks so that's what he said. Yeah but the floor would be really hot because it's
concrete and I'm quite claustrophobic so getting lost in that impenetrable grid system. Yeah the
grid system is not for me. It was really a really weird trip. I got a plane and there were two people
on the plane. It was a tiny plane. From one bit of India to another. Yeah I can't actually I think it
must have been flying from Delhi but I don't really get scared and I was not a humble brag.
I don't I've never been scared. But I was in the plane and I was like I'm gonna I'm gonna die
because it was so small. I've never been it was like me in the pilot. Like I might be like
and I just booked it online. Like it wasn't like a special plane. I just booked it and got there and
I was like that can't be it. It's smaller than a car and then it was it and I was in it and it was
still went in. Rikety. Oh my god. Yeah because I was like I've got to go. Was he definitely in pilot?
Was he something like he'd made a website? Yeah. He was like can't believe someone fell for this.
Better read this first. It's a plane. Yeah it was so scary. At what point into the flight did you
realise actually I am scared of something and it's this. It was the take off. No the take off. But
you were fine. You sat in it going this is okay this is fine. No when I walked onto the tarmac I was
like that isn't it. I can't walk onto that. It's so there was no steps up. I remember that. It was
like one step and I was in the plane. I was like it's got to be higher than this. I'm really
picturing like one of those toy planes you get outside supermarket. It was tiny. And also I'm
really tall and I remember like my neck being like cricked the whole journey because I couldn't fit
in the it was so small. That's so funny. It was so yeah. Was that designed by a corbusier as well?
It would have been just a cuboid if it had been designed. Concrete cuboid plane.
Okay well thank you for your question. You're so welcome. Yeah very interesting. We
as usual made the right rickets of trying to answer it but we got there in the end.
And I think we will let people know how we can how they can get in touch with us. So
we know how to get in touch with Dan and and no anecdote Anna don't we. So Molly you're on social
medias. My comedy account is run by my comedy partner called Mudfish. You can always follow
that. I have no control over the content and I want to make that really clear. But if they if
people go in there they might find out where to come and see your show. Yeah yeah yeah they could.
Yeah and you know she has no control over the content so it won't be a load of sort of anti
brutalist. It won't be simple. It's not going to be simple stuff. It's not simple. The complex side
of Mudfish. We'll be back again in two more weeks with another piece of bonus content. Who knows
what it'll be and we'll see you then. Goodbye.